hello everyone today I want to tell you the story of Don Ramón better known
as ramón valdez xd finally let's start the origin of his career goes back to the
golden age of Mexican cinema next to his brother Germanic valdés tin tan
he became famous for his performances in the television series 'el chavo del 8'
interpreting the role of Don Ramón as well as the series' el chapulín
colorado 'and chespirito his character don ramón has reached the status of an icon
of popular culture in much of Latin America
was born in the city of mexico on September 2, 1923
son of rafael valdés gómez customs agents and castle booklets loves
home
all the children of the marriage had their own nickname and thus branched
known as moncho
at the age of two years sitting together with his family in Ciudad Juarez Chihuahua
where his brothers tin so
manuel the crazy and antonio valdés antonio reason
they would start in the art of acting
performances in different films valdés acted in more than 50 films
next to his sister tin-tan most times pedro infant and
cantinflas among others
the forties and fifties represent
in the golden age of Mexican cinema a period of splendor in cinema at that
country that did not benefit much valdés also had always earned a living
also with simple trades ironically like his famous
later character don ramón
it is even said that he was kept with his sister's money tin tan and faced
economic problems
the fame was of this one while his younger brother manuel the madman valdés
he acted independently in movies like stellar
the screenwriter and actor roberto gómez bolaños chespirito who had worked
with chip and capulina was putting together the cast of a new program of
TV
as he was an admirer of valdés he called him one of the first to integrate the
cast
in 1968 he begins to work on the series the supergenios of the square table
together with rubén aguirre and maría antonieta de las nieves
in 1970 that program became his spirit and lasted three years until
in 1971 valdés that had established friendship with gómez bolaños happened to
be part of the comedy 'el chavo del 8 directed by gómez bolaños where
played the role of Don Ramón a member of the neighborhood characterized
for his laziness for his eternal confrontation with Mr. Belly and
Dona Florinda, although she was a character of great heart and tenderness
gómez bolaños offered him the character thinking that he was the ideal actor for
give life
with what his popularity was consolidated today grew to limits that never
got in other projects
in 1973 he began the colorado grasshopper both comedies directed by
gómez bolaños
in the first one they become well known for their role as don Ramón and in second
with the interpretations of super sam the scratch swish pirate soul black guts
dry and the peterete
well with these two programs
valdés experienced what the recognition had never before felt and
protagonism that he never had with his brother German tin so to whom
accompanied the last years of his life until his death in 1988
don ramón had a daughter the chilindrina played by maría
antonieta de las nieves a neighbor in love with him and dona cleotilde
interpreted by angelina is fernandez and another neighbor who always ended
tapping take it to florinda played by florinda meza by
defend his son kiko played by Carlos Villagrán
despite his fame and recognition in 1979 he gave up the two programs of
chespirito
some rumors indicate that for salary disagreements others say that
it was because the personal differences between his co-workers were
they were getting stronger
in an interview esteban valdés son of the actor stated that the output of his
father was due to florinda meza couple of gómez bolaños wanted to have
all control over the program
this situation would have caused discomfort to valdés who preferred
receive orders only from gómez bolaños to whom he owed his fame
these after his resignation followed that of Carlos Villagra
two years later in 1981 valdés returned for a year with gómez
bolaños acting in the program chespirito
valdés would again play Don Ramón in the boy and old and new
characters in different is that you are except for petete since the companion
of popcorn in the casquitos would be the botija interpreted by edgar vivar
would remain from the beginning of the season of that year until the end of
In 1982 away from chespirito he accompanied villagrán in his own project in
Venezuela
Federric comedy would be produced there and broadcast on radio
caracas television rctv and valdés would act like don moncho
only participate in the first season of the program because it does not
He had a lot of audience and returned to Mexico
in 1987 he returned to television with his former program partner Carlos
villagrán the small tank
his deteriorated health did not allow him to continue acting so he left the
Program
Valles had a strong addiction to tobacco and used to smoke even during
filming of the different chespirito programs
At the beginning of the 80s, stomach cancer was detected
still with the weight of the disease in 1987 he continued to tour with his circus
entertaining the children who felt he had asked for him
Peru would be the last country I would visit outside of Mexico, because there
he would feel the worsening of his illness
what would force him to return to his country
his homework with his circus and the acetic comedy
it would be unfinished due to that evil
his agony felt among his closest friends among them his companions
the chespirito series as Carlos Villagrán Edgar Vivar and Rubén Aguirre
After two weeks sedated to avoid pain passed away on August 9
from 1988 to 64 years old consequence of stomach cancer
that metastasized to the spine
And that's the story
that's all to another
and in peace rest don ramón